.\" Man page for oasis_initdisk
.TH OASIS_INITDISK 1 "2025-05-25" "OASIS UTILITIES" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oasis_initdisk \- Initializes or formats an OASIS disk image file (.img or .imd).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oasis_initdisk
.I image_path_or_fd
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oasis_initdisk
utility is used to format and initialize new OASIS disk images or re-initialize existing ones. It supports various operations for setting up the disk's filesystem structures, label, and write-protection status.
.SH OPTIONS
Options are case-insensitive and space-separated.
.TP
.B BUILD
Writes bootstrap, label, and directory to an already formatted disk. Assumes existing low-level format.
.TP
.B CLEAR (CL)
Erases all files by re-initializing the directory and allocation map, effectively making the disk appear empty while preserving the low-level format.
.TP
.B FORMAT (FMT)
Performs a low-level format (simulated for \fB.img\fR, actual for \fB.imd\fR using \fBlibimdf\fR) and then initializes the OASIS filesystem structures (boot sector, filesystem block, allocation map, directory).
.TP
.BI LABEL " name"
Sets or changes the disk's volume label to <\fIname\fR> (max 8 characters).
.TP
.B NOWP
Removes software write protection for the disk.
.TP
.B WP
Enables software write protection for the disk.
.TP
.BI HEAD " n"
(Requires FORMAT) Number of disk surfaces (1-255).
.TP
.BI INCR " n"
(Requires FORMAT) Logical sector increment (interleave factor) (1-255).
.TP
.BI SECTOR " n"
(Requires FORMAT) Sectors per track (1-255).
.TP
.BI SIZE " n"
(Requires FORMAT, CLEAR, or BUILD) Number of directory entries.
.TP
.BI SKEW " n"
(Requires FORMAT) Track skew factor (0-255).
.TP
.BI TRACKS " n"
(Requires FORMAT) Tracks per surface (1-255).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Howard M. Harte.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/hharte/oasis-utils/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2021-2025 Howard M. Harte
Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oasis_disk_util (1),
.BR oasis_chkdsk (1),
.BR oasis_send (1),
.BR oasis_recv (1)
