.\" Man page for oasis_send
.TH OASIS_SEND 1 "2025-05-25" "OASIS UTILITIES" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oasis_send \- Sends files from the host system to an OASIS system via a serial port.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oasis_send
.I port
.RI [ options ]
.I filename_or_pattern ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oasis_send
utility transfers files from the host computer to an OASIS system using a serial connection. It implements the OASIS serial transfer protocol. The host filename must encode the target OASIS filename, type, format, attributes, and optionally record length, key length, or load address.
.SH FILENAME CONVENTION
The host filename
.B must
follow this structure:
.BR FNAME.FTYPE_[S|D|A|R|I|K][ATTRS][_RRR[_KKK_LLLL]]
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIFNAME\fR: Max 8 characters.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIFTYPE\fR: Max 8 characters.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIS|D|A|R|I|K\fR: Single character for file format (Sequential, Direct, Absolute, Relocatable, Indexed, Keyed). If only \fIFNAME.TYPE\fR is given, Sequential format is assumed.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIATTRS\fR: Optional attributes (R=Read-prot, W=Write-prot, D=Delete-prot). E.g., \fBRW\fR, \fBD\fR.
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIRRR\fR: Record Length. Required for Direct, Indexed, Keyed. For Absolute/Relocatable, it's usually SECTOR_SIZE (256). For Sequential, it's the longest record length (if 0, \fBoasis_send\fR may calculate it or use a default).
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIKKK\fR: Key Length (for Indexed/Keyed).
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fILLLL\fR: Load Address (hex, for Absolute).
.PP
Examples: \fBMYPROG.BAS_S\fR, \fBDATA.REC_D_128\fR, \fBSYSTEM.CMD_AR_256_E000\fR.
Wildcards in <\fIfilename_or_pattern\fR> are expanded by \fBoasis_send\fR on Windows; on POSIX, they are typically expanded by the shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -q
Quiet mode. Suppresses non-essential output.
.TP
.B -d
Debug mode. Provides verbose output for troubleshooting.
.TP
.B -a, --ascii
ASCII mode. Converts host line endings (CR/LF to CR) and treats SUB as EOF. Implies Sequential format.
.TP
.B -f, --flow-control
Disable Hardware (RTS/CTS) Flow Control (default: enabled).
.TP
.BI -b " rate"
Baud rate (default: 19200).
.TP
.BI -u " id"
User ID (0-255) for the Directory Entry Block (DEB) of the sent file (default: 0).
.TP
.BI --pcap " file"
Log raw serial communication to a PCAP file.
.TP
.BI --pacing-packet " ms"
Delay in milliseconds after sending each packet.
.SH SERIAL PROTOCOL
The utility uses DLE stuffing, Shift-In/Out states for MSB, RLE compression, LRC checksums, and ENQ/ACK handshaking.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Howard M. Harte.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/hharte/oasis-utils/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2021-2025 Howard M. Harte
Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oasis_disk_util (1),
.BR oasis_chkdsk (1),
.BR oasis_initdisk (1),
.BR oasis_recv (1)
