.\" Man page for oasis_recv
.TH OASIS_RECV 1 "2025-05-25" "OASIS UTILITIES" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oasis_recv \- Receives files from an OASIS system onto the host system via a serial port.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oasis_recv
.I port
.RI [ output_dir ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oasis_recv
utility receives files sent from an OASIS system over a serial connection. It implements the OASIS serial transfer protocol and creates output files on the host system based on the received OASIS directory information, using the host filename convention.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -q
Quiet mode. Suppresses non-essential output.
.TP
.B -d
Debug mode. Provides verbose output for troubleshooting.
.TP
.B -a, --ascii
ASCII mode. Converts received ASCII files to host line endings (received CR to host OS standard, SUB as EOF).
.TP
.B -f, --flow-control
Disable Hardware (RTS/CTS) Flow Control (default: enabled).
.TP
.BI -b " rate"
Baud rate (default: 19200).
.TP
.BI --pcap " file"
Log raw serial communication to a PCAP file.
.TP
.BI --pacing-packet " ms"
Delay in milliseconds after receiving each packet (before sending ACK).
.SH SERIAL PROTOCOL
The utility uses DLE stuffing, Shift-In/Out states for MSB, RLE compression, LRC checksums, and ENQ/ACK handshaking.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Howard M. Harte.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/hharte/oasis-utils/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2021-2025 Howard M. Harte
Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oasis_disk_util (1),
.BR oasis_chkdsk (1),
.BR oasis_initdisk (1),
.BR oasis_send (1)
